What is the optimal input to flash card ratio? I feel like this is such an important question for anybody at any stage learning a language and yet I don't think I've directly talked about it that much on this channel. So, here we go. I think this is super important for you. So, in my opinion, I think I have a little bit of a hot take here. It of course depends on your goals, just like everything with language learning, right? It depends heavily on your goals.
But, I'd say for most people, you're probably better off with a the majority of your time with the language being spent with flash cards. I know. I know, it sounds crazy, but but hear me out, okay? So, if you're making flash cards in the right way, which is you're making them I plus one, which means that in every flash card, there's only one element in that card that you don't understand, that turns that flash card into comprehensible input, right? If there's like five words on the card that you don't understand, then you're just wasting your own time. It's just too difficult and at that point, the juice isn't worth the squeeze. You're not getting that much out of it. You're not getting as much of it as you think you are. It's almost like paradoxical because if you're inexperienced with language learning, you might think that the more unknown things you have on your flash cards, the more you're going to learn, but it's it's not the case. It doesn't turn out like that. Trust me, I've tried. I've been there. The best thing to do is have only one unknown element, maybe two is is really pushing it if it like for certain sentences. And I've talked about that on the channel before, but one unknown element on each card is the best. So, that makes the card comprehensible, right? And you also want to make sure it's a whole sentence on the card, not words because learning words out of context is really, really difficult to translate into real fluency, right? It just makes it so much harder because very rarely in the real world, unless it's like a word like yes, no, maybe, something like that, like almost every time you hear a word, it's going to be in the context of a sentence. And so, by learning words in the context of a sentence, you're able to more easily grasp their meaning.
And on top of that, you're able to learn how to use it more naturally, right? And it has much more direct carryover to your language fluency in the future and even to your listening comprehension, right? Because that's how you're going to be comprehending words in the future.
And so, it's really important to have those two elements in place, I + 1 and entire sentences. Once you have that structure in place, now your flashcards become comprehensible input, right? And so, that's where things get a little bit confusing now, because now that your flashcards are comprehensible input, you require much less time just spent watching content, right? And that's really what like what I really wanted to talk about, like the time of consuming content to using flashcards. What's that type of ratio going to look like? Now, with that being said, I'm only talking about hours here that you have dedicated specifically to language study. So, like if you're like obviously driving to work, obviously you're going to listen to a podcast. And if you're going to be driving to work, let's just say for you personally, your commute is 1 and 1/2 hours to and from work. So, 3 hours total every day. Obviously, you might not have 3 hours total to be spending on flashcards. So, obviously in that case, your listening to flashcard ratio will be off. I'm not talking about that. What I'm talking about here is the situation where you have 2 hours to sit down and actively study the language. In my opinion, very little of that time should be spent just sitting down and watching content. The majority of that time should be spent grinding flashcards in a way that's relative in a way that's optimal for your goals. For example, if you have 1 and 1/2 hours of active study available to you for Japanese, right?
And your main goal is to increase your reading comprehension, I would recommend spending at least an hour of that time of that 1 hour and a half doing flashcards related to your reading comprehension, whether that be like reading cards, kanji cards, whatever that looks like for you.
And then the next half an hour would be just like free flow reading or something like that, right? With listening, same thing. Uh let's just say you're learning Korean and you really want to improve your listening.
Then you would spend if you have 2 hours, let's just say. Maybe you would spend an hour and a half of that active time doing listening flashcards, right?
Where you're increasing your vocabulary, you're doing a bunch of reviews, all this stuff. You're really listening to sentences, and you're even repeating after them, too, in order to really lock in to make sure that you heard it properly and all that stuff, right?
You're really spending an hour and a half doing listening-based flashcards with no text on the flashcards at all.
It's entirely based on your listening ability. Your listening the last half hour is going to be spent just listening to the language. Maybe you you just watch a show with no subtitles. Most people if they have 2 hours that are that they're dedicating to studying Korean, they will spend half an hour doing audio flash cards and then an hour and a half just watching content. I'm saying the opposite an hour and a half of the audio flash cards and half an hour watching content and trust me your abilities will improve so much faster. I have done this in both Vietnamese and Japanese and with both of those languages relative to the goals that I was using these flash cards for, I found I tried both ways. I tried a majority input minority flash cards and I tried majority flash cards minority input.
And I found that in both languages I was at different levels too with both languages. With Vietnamese I'm already fluent I'm just still learning to get more fluent and with Japanese I'm like basically beginner level maybe low intermediate, right? And so with both languages even though they're completely different even though my level in those languages is completely different, I found that no matter what always progress faster when the majority of my time my active time with the language is spent doing more flash cards. And again before I end this video I really want to just clarify it has to be the right kind of flash card study.
If your main goal is to get better at listening to the language and you're doing cards with words on the front like like reading on the front, right? And it's just one word in isolation, your listening ability will not improve that much. You will get way better listening improvement via just watching shows, right? You will just get way better listening improvement from that.
However, again you have to make the cards intelligently and you have to follow the instructions, right? Like if your main goal is listening improvement and you only have audio on your cards and no words and you're listening to the entire sentence, you're listening to it sometimes multiple times to make sure you can understand it instantly. You're even like listening and repeating to make sure you can say it too to make sure you really heard it properly. All this stuff and you're really like properly doing the listen and repeat and you have one sentence with only one unknown element in that sentence and you're doing that for the majority of your time, I'm telling you you're going to improve so much faster. So, yeah, if you implement the advice in this video, you could potentially double the speed at which you're making progress right now with your target language, and that's not an exaggeration. So, if you found this helpful, consider clicking the top link in the description. That's my program. I'm currently running an insane deal right now where you can basically get lifetime access to the community and the program and the calls with me and everything like that for just one-time purchase. So, yeah, if you found my videos like helpful and valuable, then that program will be like super valuable for you. All right, thank you for listening.
